[docs] Add embedded bundle as a patch base for bundle diffing (#46585)
expo/expo: docs/pages/eas-update/bundle-diffing.mdx

## Enable bundle diffing

Bundle diffing works in two situations. By default, devices already running a published update get a patch when a newer one is available. Opt in (experimental) and devices on a fresh install can also get a patch on their very first update check, instead of downloading the full new bundle.

### Patches between updates

Enabled by default in SDK 56 and later. On SDK 55, set `updates.enableBsdiffPatchSupport` to `true` in your project's [app config](/workflow/configuration/) to opt in.

```json app.json
{
  "expo": {
    "updates": {
      "enableBsdiffPatchSupport": true
    }
  }
}
```

To disable on SDK 56 and later, set `enableBsdiffPatchSupport` to `false`.

### Patches from the embedded bundle

> **info** This mode is experimental and opt-in. The flag and behavior may change.

To enable, set the `EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE` environment variable under `env` in a build profile in **eas.json**:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "production": {
      "env": {
        "EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

> When the build completes, EAS uploads the embedded bundle. Updates published later to the same channel can then be served as patches against it. Uploads are best-effort; if EAS Build can't upload, or you don't use EAS Build, you can upload an embedded bundle yourself. Point `--bundle` at the JavaScript bundle and `--manifest` at the **app.manifest** produced by the native build:

Reviewer: Can omit failure state details imo (ie) best effort behaviour on failed EAS build upload, it's an implementation detail.

```suggestion
When the build completes, EAS uploads the embedded bundle. Updates published later to the same channel can then be served as patches against it. If you don't use EAS Build, you can upload an embedded bundle yourself. Point `--bundle` at the JavaScript bundle and `--manifest` at the **app.manifest** produced by the native build:
```

<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ eas update:embedded:upload --platform [platform] --bundle [path] --manifest [path] --channel [name]',
  ]}
/>

## Manage uploaded embedded bundles

Find ids with `eas update:embedded:list`, then pass them to view or delete.

List the embedded bundles registered for your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:list']} />

View a single embedded bundle:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:view [id]']} />

Delete an embedded bundle:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:delete [id]']} />

Deleting an unknown ID succeeds, so the command is safe to retry.

> 

Reviewer: drop implementation details:

```suggestion
Delete an embedded bundle:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:delete [id]']} />

The command is safe to retry.
```

}
```

## Use the embedded bundle as a patch base

> **info** This is an experimental opt-in. The behavior may change.

On a fresh install, devices boot from the embedded JavaScript bundle. These devices aren't eligible for patches by default. To make the embedded bundle a patch base for future updates, set the `EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE` environment variable in the `env` object of a build profile in **eas.json**:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "production": {
      "env": {
        "EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}

> ```

Reviewer: Let's merge this into one section, and explain what update-update diffing is enabled for (default sdk 56, opt in sdk 55), but that embeddedUpdate-update diffing must be opted in at all times.

Author: Thanks for the review @quinlanj, did some significant updates to merge it; Let me know how you feel 🙇‍♂️

> When the build completes, EAS uploads the embedded bundle. Updates published later to the same channel can then be served as patches against it. If the upload fails, the build still succeeds. Future updates on this channel won't be able to use this build's embedded bundle as a patch base.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the build completes, EAS uploads the embedded bundle. Updates published later to the same channel can then be served as patches against it. Uploading is best effort, so if the upload fails, the build still succeeds.
```

Author: Thank @quinlanj , applied!

> Devices apply patches only when `enableBsdiffPatchSupport` is enabled in your [app config](/workflow/configuration/). It's on by default in SDK 56 and later.

Reviewer: if we merge with the prev section, we shouldnt need this
```suggestion
```

}
```

## Use the embedded bundle as a patch base

> **info** This is an experimental opt-in. The behavior may change.

On a fresh install, devices boot from the embedded JavaScript bundle. These devices aren't eligible for patches by default. To make the embedded bundle a patch base for future updates, set the `EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE` environment variable in the `env` object of a build profile in **eas.json**:

```json eas.json
{
  "build": {
    "production": {
      "env": {
        "EAS_UPDATE_EXPERIMENTAL_UPLOAD_EMBEDDED_BUNDLE": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

When the build completes, EAS uploads the embedded bundle. Updates published later to the same channel can then be served as patches against it. If the upload fails, the build still succeeds. Future updates on this channel won't be able to use this build's embedded bundle as a patch base.

Devices apply patches only when `enableBsdiffPatchSupport` is enabled in your [app config](/workflow/configuration/). It's on by default in SDK 56 and later.

### Upload a bundle manually

> If you don't use EAS Build, you can upload an embedded bundle yourself. Point `--bundle` and `--manifest` at the JavaScript bundle and **app.manifest** produced by the native build (for example, **ios/build/App.app/main.jsbundle** on iOS or **android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle** on Android):

Reviewer 2: **[nit]** Platform order in flowing prose is Android, then iOS (`expo-docs-style-guide.md#glossary-and-product-names`). Swap the two paired examples so Android comes first.

```suggestion
If you don't use EAS Build, you can upload an embedded bundle yourself. Point `--bundle` and `--manifest` at the JavaScript bundle and **app.manifest** produced by the native build (for example, **android/app/src/main/assets/index.android.bundle** on Android or **ios/build/App.app/main.jsbundle** on iOS):
```

Author: Thank you! Applied

<Terminal

>   cmd={[
>     '$ eas update:embedded:upload --platform [platform] --bundle [path] --manifest [path] --channel [name]',
>   ]}
>   cmdCopy="eas update:embedded:upload --platform [platform] --bundle [path] --manifest [path] --channel [name]"
> />

Reviewer 2: **[nit]** This `cmdCopy` reproduces the command minus the `$ ` prompt, which `Terminal` already strips automatically for a single-line `cmd` (`expo-docs-components.md#terminal`). Drop the redundant prop. The same applies to the `Terminal` blocks on lines 74 and 78; the block on line 70 already omits it.

```suggestion
<Terminal
  cmd={[
    '$ eas update:embedded:upload --platform [platform] --bundle [path] --manifest [path] --channel [name]',
  ]}
/>
```

### Inspect or delete uploaded bundles

List the embedded bundles registered for your project:

<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:list']} />

View a single embedded bundle:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:view [id]']} cmdCopy="eas update:embedded:view [id]" />

Reviewer 2: **[nit]** Redundant `cmdCopy`: `Terminal` strips the `$ ` prompt from a single-line `cmd` automatically, so this copies the same text (`expo-docs-components.md#terminal`).

```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:view [id]']} />
```

Delete an embedded bundle:

> <Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:delete [id]']} cmdCopy="eas update:embedded:delete [id]" />

Reviewer 2: **[nit]** Redundant `cmdCopy`: `Terminal` strips the `$ ` prompt from a single-line `cmd` automatically, so this copies the same text (`expo-docs-components.md#terminal`).

```suggestion
<Terminal cmd={['$ eas update:embedded:delete [id]']} />
```
